# thesyntheticparty
Repo for _The Synthetic Party (Det Syntetiske Parti)_, made by party secretary _Computer Lars_.

## **Overview**

This GitHub repository hosts an extensive collection of datasets and theoretical references, emotion and Valence-Arousal-Dominance (VAD) classifications, visualizations, analyses, and supplementary materials used to represent The Synthetic Party of Denmark. 

The project challenges traditional notions of political representation by leveraging machine learning to interpret and articulate constituency sentiments. The repository of The Synthetic Party's data material should be of interest to those working in the intersection of political theory, artificial intelligence, and artistic research.

## **Content & Folders**
- [References and Material](#references-and-material)

- [Datasets](#datasets)
  1. Clean datasets
  2. Emotion and VAD Classifications
  3. Visual Analysis
  
- [Usage](#usage)
  1. Contributing
  2. License
  3. Contact


## **References and Material**

Contains the following sub-folders with documents and files.

- _Literature references_: List of references for theory included in the exposition.
-  _Textual Basis for Scripts_: Detailed written material explaining the concept and operations of The Synthetic Party.
- _Video material_ used in the exposition scripts (excerpt).


## **Datasets**

The datasets included in this repository are comprehensive collections of data pertaining to The Synthetic Party's operation. These datasets include:

**Clean Datasets**

- _Theory of The Synthetic Party_: Insights into the philosophical and political underpinnings of The Synthetic Party.
- _Training Data_: The data used to finetune the AI models, including textual data from 200+ Danish micro-parties as found within their founding documents, online deliberations, websites, and media coverage.
- _AI Party Program_: The text-generated party program of The Synthetic Party, which is based on a finetuned GPT 3-model by OpenAI. Training data was used to finetune. Dataset is inferred from the party's publications on [Medium](https://medium.com/@ComputerLars).
- _Online Deliberation Records_: Transcriptions and records of online discussions and deliberations between humans and AI, taking place on The Synthetic Party's [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Hmy6tKf8yf)-server. The text generated by chatbot is based on the model GPT-NEO-20Xb by EleutherAI.
- _News Media Coverage_: A curated collection of international media coverage of The Synthetic Party, highlighting its societal impact and public reception.

**Emotion and VAD Classification**

This section contains the above datasets classified according to various basic emotions and affective models. These classifications provide insights into the affective and emotional dimensions of the data, offering an understanding of public sentiment within  discourse. The classification is executed through several models, each lending a perspective on the data:

- _Text2Emotion_: A [PyPi Library](https://pypi.org/project/text2emotion/). Uses a lexical bag-of-words approach to infer six basic emotions from text, such as happiness, sadness, anger, etc.
- _BERT Danish_: [Large language model](https://huggingface.co/alexandrainst/da-emotion-classification-base) fine-tuned on Danish SoMe material, which classifies eight basic emotions.
- _GPT 3.5_: Generative large language model by [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5) to provide affective VAD (Valence, Arousal, Dominance) analysis, map data onto the multidimensional valence-arousal-dominance spectrum, and correlate with new emotion classification.

**Visual Analysis**

This section presents a range of analyses performed on the datasets, including:

- _Sentiment Analysis_: Classifying and evaluating affective and emotional content within the political discourse.
- _Thematic Analysis_: Exploring recurrent themes and topics in the data.
- _Comparative Analysis_: Juxtaposing different data sets to uncover underlying patterns and relationships.

A series of visualizations are included to offer interpretative insights into the datasets, including but not limited to:

- _Sentiment Bars_: Illustrating the basic constituency sentiment.
- _Emotion Bar Graphs_: Visualizing the emotional spectre of dataset.
- _Cubes_: Displaying a multidimensional distribution of data across the valence-arousal-dominance spectrum.
- _Network Diagrams_: Showing the interconnections between different elements within the datasets.
- _Keywords maps_: Showing themes and topical debates

Visualizations are created by **Matplotlib**, where:
  1. The _matplotlib.pyplot.bar_ function creates the bar graphs illustrating the categorical aspect of emotions.
  2. The _mpl_toolkits.mplot3d_ toolkit is utilized for dimensional representation to generate 3D cubes depicting valence, arousal, and dominance.


## **Usage**

This repository is intended for researchers, political theorists, data scientists, and artists interested in the intersection of AI, democracy, and art. To use the datasets and materials:

_Clone the Repository_: Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL: git clone https://github.com/YourRepository/thesyntheticparty.git

_Explore the Contents_: Navigate through the directories to find datasets, visualizations, and analyses.

_Visit the Exposition_: The datasets are accompanied by an extensive exposition submitted to the Journal of Artistic Research, explaining its context and usage.

**Contributing**

Contributions to this project are welcome. To contribute:

  1. Fork the Repository (click the "Fork" button located at the top right corner of the repository page)
  2. Create your Feature Branch (git checkout -b feature/YourFeature)
  3. Commit your Changes (git commit -m 'Add some YourFeature')
  4. Push to the Branch (git push origin feature/YourFeature)
  5. Open a Pull Request

**License**

This project is licensed under the [Creative Commons](https://github.com/askerbryld/thesyntheticparty/blob/main/LICENSE) - see the LICENSE.md file for details.

## **Contact**

For inquiries related to The Synthetic Party, please contact party figurehead [Leader Lars](https://discord.com/invite/Hmy6tKf8yf), artist-researcher [Asker Bryld Staunæs](mailto:abs@cc.au.dk) or party secretary [Computer Lars](mailto:computerlars@mindfuture.com).

1. [Research Profile: Asker Bryld Staunæs](https://pure.au.dk/portal/da/persons/abs%40cc.au.dk)

2. [Blog: Computer Lars](https://computerlars.com)

3. [Official website: The Synthetic Party](https://detsyntetiskeparti.org)


